1) What is AWS - Traditional vs cloud computing?

    Before when we wanted to create an application before that we need to do several things
    First we need to purchase server and we need to hire a garrage where we can keep our server.
    Since server needs cool place so need to purchase AC also.
    Since we need to run our website 24 hours daily so need to hire some persons for maintenance.
    In above things roughly 1 lakh or rupees will go before creation of applications only.

    After above fix still we will have two major problems.
    a) Suppose at starting we thought that 10 thousands user will come to our application so we have
        purchased a server which can handle 10 thousands but there are only 10 people hitting our
        application daily. So company will come in loss.

    b) Suppose at starting we thought that 10 thousands user will come to our application so we have
        purchased a server which can handle 10 thousands but there are 10 lakhs of people hitting our
        application daily. So our server will freeze because of that.

2) Cloud service.

    There are three types of cloud service.

    a) Iaas (Infrastructure as a service) - In Iaas all the hardware will be there by service
        provider. On that service provider will install an operating system and deliver to user.
        User will install and configure the software as per their requirements. EC2 instance is an example
        of Iaas service.

    b) Saas (Software as a service) - In Saas the service provider will use all the features
        of Iaas and install and configure some set of software on that. User will only take care of their
        Application and their data. The price of Saas will be costlier then the Iaas. RDS is an example
        of Saas.

    c) Paas (Platform as a service) - In Paas everything will be there with service provider only in fact
        data also. Many company do not recommended Paas. Gmail is an example of Paas. No need to configure
        or install anything.

3) Types of cloud.

    There are three types of cloud.

    a) Public cloud - This type of cloud is available publicly everywhere in the world for everyone.
        Anyone can create their resources from anywhere.

    b) Private cloud - This type of cloud is not available publicly everywhere in the world or everyone.
        Private cloud can be access in the company network only.

    c) Hybrid cloud - This type of cloud is the combination of more than one type of cloud.

4) How AWS charge?

    AWS charge based on three factors -

    a) Compute - No of cpu used.
    b) Storage - How much storage we use.
    c) Data transfer - How much data transfer outside of server.

5) Global infrastructure in AWS

    In AWS three things are there

    Region - It contains the numbers of availability zones.
    Availability zones - It contains of numbers of data centre.
    Data centre - It consists a physical storage of data.

    Region -

    Why AWS need multiple availability zones in the world why can't just make one availability zone in
    America or India and handle all the data from there?

    1) It depends on the numbers of audience present from which part of world. If we keep our server
    near by maximum audience it will be easy to load the page.

    2) Some government do not allow their data to be placed outside of their country.

    3) Disaster Recovery - In case of any disaster such as flood, earthquake or in case of fire generally
        we use to keep copy of one region data into another region.

        All the regions are interconnected through sea optical wire and data transfer at the speed of
        100 zb/sec.

    4) Cost effectively - The electricity cost in USA will be not same as in India.

    In AWS all the regions will have one unique code.
    It is not necessary that all the services will be available in all the regions. And price of one
    service may vary regions to regions also.

    Availability zones -

    Why not we keep all data centers in one region only why we have created availability zones?

    Actually if we put all the data centers in one regions there will be few drawbacks

    1) What will happened id suddenly power cut happened.
    2) What will happened if terrorism attack.

    These are the scenarios they have considered while designing global infrastructure of AWS.
    Each Availability zone will be connect with different power house and different networks.

    Just like each region have their own unique code same way each availability zones will have their
    own unique code.

    Local zones -

    When we wanted to keep our server in any particular city of a country then local zones come into play
    AWS say if a server is placed in local zones the n that city server will give single digit latency
    to load the page. For now it is not necessary that each service will be available to each local
    zones.

6) What is EC2?

    EC2 stands for elastic compute cloud.
    AWS EC2 will give server on rent to use. We can create virtual machine on the AWS EC2 service.
    While creating EC2 instance we can select multiple things.

    a) Which operating system you wanted to choose.
    b) Which AMI you wanted to choose we can choose our custom AMI also.
    c) We can choose Architecture of the virtual machine.
    d) We can select Instance type of an instance such as t2-micro, t2-name etc.
    e) We can either select an existing security groups or we can generate new one also.
    f) We can choose how many compute we need compute means no of CPU.
    g) How much RAM we need we can choose.
    h) We can select speed of upload or download data also.
    i) We can set Firewall rule in security groups. Firewall rules means from which IP or port
        we allow to our server and on which Ip or port my server can send response or communicate.
    j) We can put bootstrap scripts while creating EC2 instance. Once the instance will create first of
        all this bootstrap script will run automatically.
    k) How much storage we need we can choose.

    While creating instance we create a key value pair the public dta will goes to instance and the
    private keys file will come to user from that file they can access their instance.

7) What is Inbound and Outbound rules?

    In security groups we configure Inbound and Outbound rules and we attach the security groups
    with instance.
    Inbound rules - from which port or Ip address we can send request to my server.
    Outbound rules - on which port or Ip address my server can communicate.

8) How to access the EC2 instance?

    There are multiple ways to connect with EC2 instance.

    a)  I used to access the instance through ssh.

        command to connect with ssh
        ssh -i <youtube.pem> <username>@<public dns>
        by default for ubuntu machine username will be ubuntu
        In place of public dns we can use public ip also.

        Sometime we get error while connecting with instance this may happened because of the pem key file.
        The pem key file should be private AWS will not allow the public key file to access the instance.
        Read access of file should only with owner.

        command to make the pem file as private.
        chmod 400 <name of the pem file>

        command to check OS name inside instance.
        cat /etc/os-release

        command to check the ram of the instance.
        free -m

        command to check the no of CPU in the instance.
        lscpu

        command to  check the storage available in the instance.
        df -h

        command to check the private API
        ip -a

    b)  For windows machine since we can not do ssh so we use Putty to connect with instance.
    c) We can connect with git bash also in windows machine.
    d) In instance list select an instance click on connect then go to EC2 instance connect tab and
        click on connect button that's it. In this process we do not need any tool. In the web browser
        only we can connect with instance.

9) Default availability zone of mumbai region is ap-south-1a so how AWS will manage the load between
    all the availability zones?

    For different user if a server has created in same name of availability zone of a region, There is
    no guarantee that for all the user server is created in same availability zone. AWS in  backend will
    point different different availability zone to a name of availability zone for different users.

10) Install NGINX in EC2 Instance and deploy the sample application in the EC2.

    Command to login as root.
    sudo -i
    Command to update the instance
    apt-get update
    command to install NGINX
    apt-get install nginx
    command to check the configuration of nginx
    nginx -t
    command to check the nginx service status
    service nginx status
    command to check what are there in nginx localhost ip.
    curl localhost
    In /var/www/html directory we will have index.nginx-debian.html file by default it will load on
    localhost. If we create an index.html file in /var/www/html.index.html then in curl localhost
    index.html content will load.

11) If we terminate an instance then by default EBS will get delete or not?

    Yes If we choose all the by default options while creating an instance then once we terminate the
    instance the linked EBS will also be delete. But we can configure the EBS deletion while creating
    the instance in advance option of storage configuration part we can select yes or no option.
    By default it will be yes means whenever we delete an instance EBS will also get delete.

12) How to configure user-data or bootstrap script for an EC2 instance?

    While creating an instance in advance option we will get a text area there we can write the shell
    script. Once the instance will create first of all the bootstrap script will execute.

    Sample bootstrap script.

    #bin/bash

    apt-get update
    apt-get install nginx -y
    echo "I am Ashish Kumar" > /var/www/html/index.html

    The user data script will always run as a root user not as ubuntu user.

13) AWS security groups?

    It is a firewall which place before the EC2 instance where we can write rules from which port or Ip
    request will come and on which port or Ip the instance server will send response or communicate.

    We can configure rule in such a way that a specific port is allowed to send request. we can not
    configure a rule such that a specific port is disallow to reach on server.

    There are two types of rules.
    1) Inbound Rule -The traffic which can reach to the server.
        by default it is empty, we can choose ip address or port to allow on server.

    2) Outbound Rule - The traffic on which my server will send response by default all the service
        will be selected.

    ssh - default port - 22
    http - default port - 80

14) Can we add more than one security groups to one instance?

    Yes
    We can add new security groups or we can change te existing security groups also to a running
    instance on the fly.

15) How to add another security group to a running instance on the fly?

    Steps to add another security group to a running instance on the fly -

        1) Go to list of instances.
        2) Select an instance and click on action.
        3) click on security and choose a security group to add to that instance.

    Note - We can add multiple security group to an instance as well as we can add a security group
    to multiple instances.

16) Instance Type

    We can compare the instance. we can increase or remove the table columns of instance after clicking
    on settings symbol.

    Example -
    t2micro - Here t is instance class, 2 is generation of that class and micro is based on the size.

17) Types of Instance?

    There are five types of instance.

    a) General purpose instance
        It is a balanced compute, memory and network bandwidth instance. Example t2micro.

    b) Compute optimized instance
        When we have some work which needs more number of cpu such as creation of more pdf works, for
        gaming purpose then we choose compute optimized instance.

    c) Memory optimized instance
        When we require more memory here we keep data into memory there we choose memory optimized
        instance for example caching related works.

    d) Accelerated computing instance
        When we have works related to graphics related works, GPU then we need to choose Accelerated
        computing instance. Example machine learning works.

    e) Storage optimized instance
        When we need to do more read and write data into database then we can choose storage optimized
        instance. Like data warehousing works.

18) What is On demand instance?

    On demand instance is a type of instance where AWS create instance on demand. AWS will charge more
    money for on demand instance.

    For 1st min AWS will charge cost of whole minute after that AWS will charge cost of each seconds.

19) What is reserve instance?

    When at starting only we know that for a particular no of period we need the instance such as for
    3 years or 4 years. then we can take reserve instance. AWS will give discount up to 72% on reserve
    instance.

    Discount depends upon 4 things.
    1) Operating system, Instance type, region
    2) Time period AWS will give more discount if you will take server for 3 years than 1 years.
    3) If you pay whole amount for all time period at once then AWS will give more discount.
    4) Convertible instance and non convertible instance.

20) What is spot instance?

    In this instance we need to Bid. Whenever someone will come are who is rady to pay more than you AWS
    will the the instance to them. This type of instance has no reliability. AWS will give you some time
    period after that they will remove the instance from your account.
    This type of instance is useful which require more compute, more memory and for less time.
    AWS will give up to 92% discount.

21) What is Dedicated hosts?

    Dedicated hosts is an EC2 instance hosts which is dedicated for your uses only.
    It is used for security purpose.

    BYOL - Bring your own license.

22) What is saving plans?

    Here you have give commitment that in 1 hour how much of amount you can pay to AWS then AWS will
    give you instance as per your budget. Here AWS will give you up to 72% discount.

23) How to create and access windows machine instance?

    We can create a windows machine instance in same way as linux machine just need to select windows
    operating system.

    Steps to access a windows instance from a windows machine.
    a) Select a windows instance from the list of instance list.
    b) click on connect and go to RDP client tab.
    c) Download remote desktop file and double click on that file.
    d) It will ask password then generate password from RDP client tab.
    e) Get the password and connect.

    Note: - To connect the windows machine from a linux machine by use of Renima tool.

24) How to check instance meta data with user data in AWS?

    Meta data - Public Ip, Private Ip, AMI Id

    ip -a - This command will give you private ip address not the public ip address.
    In AWS there is a magical ip address with help of magic ip address in curl command we can get
    meta data. curl 169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/ami-id

    In the same way we can get dynamic data also of an instance.

25) When we stop an instance and again start an instance public ip address change, how to keep same IP
    address then after re run the instance.

    In AWS there is a concept of static Ip called elastic Ip. We can generate an elastic ip address
    and attach to the instance.

    Steps to reserve the IP address.
    a) In elastic dashboard in the network and security section click on elastic Ip.
    b) Click on allocate elastic ip address
    c) Allocate.

    Above steps will generate the elastic ip address now need to allocate the new generated ip address
    to the instance.

    Steps to allocate the elastic ip address to an instance.
    a) In elastic ip list click on action and select associate elastic ip address.
    b) choose an instance you wanted to associate.
    c) click associate to associate it.

    Up to now we can reserve up to 5 elastic ip address for an account. For more than that we need to
    write email to AWS.

    How AWS will charge for elastic ip address?

    If you created an elastic ip address and if that ip you allocate to an instance then aws will not
    charge anything for that because anyway AWS will give you a dynamic ip address.
    But if that elastic ip address is not attached to any of the instance or if the allocated instance
    is stopped then AWS will start charging you.

26) How to release an elastic ip address?

    Steps to release the ip address.

    a) Select an elastic ip address from the list of elastic ips.
    b) click on action and click on disassociate elastic ip then click on disassociate.
    Once you disassociate the elastic ip then automatically a dynamic ip address will assign to the
    instance which you disassociate.

27) What is EBS(Elastic block storage)?

    We can attach multiple EBS to a single instance.
    EBS is just type of a hard disk which is attached to instance.

    Can we attach one EBS to multiple instances?
    There are seven types of EBS out of that 2 we can attach with multiple instances IO1, IO2 and
    remaining 5 we can attach with single instance.

    When we create an EBS into an availability zone such as ap-south-1a then we can attach to those
    instance only which belongs to same availability zone. Because EBS stay inside availability zone.
    We can move the EBS from one availability zone to another with help of snapshot.

    We can increase the storage of an EBS in run time also. but we can't decrease the storage.

28) What is instance store root device type?

    In instance store root device type we create an EBS in same place where EC2 instance is there.
    The benefit of instance store root device type is it will give very less latency while reading
    or writing data from EBS. The negative things of instance store root device type is when we delete
    an instance EBS will automatically get delete. If we start and stop the machine also data will lose.

    So when speed matter that type of place we can create instance store root device type.
    When AWS will terminate any instance because of any issues then AWS will notify all the users first
    which is linked with that Instance then AWS will stop the instance first. If user will re start the
    instance then that instance will start somewhere else and if instance store device is attached to
    that instance then there will be data loss.

    Whenever we create an EBS AWS will create a replica of that EBS in same availability zone.

29) How to create an EBS ans attach to an instance?

    Steps to create an EBS
    a) In EC2 dashboard in elastic block storage part click on volume.
    b) click on create volume.
    c) We can select volume type, size availability zones and we can create EBS in encrypted or decrypted
        mode also.

    While creating instance in network setting in subnet option we can select an availability zone for
    instance.

    Command to check list of elastic block storge inside instance.
    lsblk


    Steps to attach or detach the EBS with instance.
    a) Choose an EBS in the volume list and click on action.
    b) Choose attach volume then we will get dropdown to select an instance.
    c) In dropdown only those instances will come which is there in same availability zone as EBS.
    d) Click on attach.

    Same way we can detach the instance from EBS also in action.

    Steps to use a newly added EBS.

    a) After creating and attaching a new EBS we need to format it before use.
        command to format a newly added EBS.
        - sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/xvdf

    b) create a dir.
        - sudo mkdir /test

    c) command to login as sudo.
        - sudo su

    d) command to go root dir.
        - cd /

    e) command to mount test dir.
        - mount /dev/xvdf /test

    f) command to check if dir is mounted or not.
        - mountpoint /test

    g) command to create some files in test dir.
        touch 1 2 3 4 5 6
        echo "I am ashish" > sample.txt

    h) command to unmount a dir
        unmount /test

    After unmount a directory it will be there but in unmounted state in same way as we have a pen drive attached with a
    laptop and we clicked eject.
    Once we detach the EBS from instance then directory will remove as same as we have removed the pen drive from
    laptop.

    command to check if EBS has already some data or not.
    sudo file -s /dev/xvdf

30) How to increase the storage of a running EBS volume.

    Steps to increase a storage of a running EBS.
    a) Select an EBS and click on action.
    b) click on modify volume button.
    c) Change the storage and click on modify.

    We can only increase the EBS size we can not decrease it.

    command to check list of file system size.
    dh -f

    command to check the list of block storage and size.
    lsblk

    After modify the storage of EBS through the AWS only block storage size got modified not the
    file system.

    command to modify the filesystem also
    resize2fs /dev/xvdf where xvdf is the name of block storage.

31) How to resize the root volume EBS?

    with sudo resize2fs command the root volume file will not modify it will give you error that the
    filesystem is already 2068731 (4k) blocks long. Nothing to do!

    for resizing the root storage first we need to grow part the partition which is the part of that
    EBS.

    sudo growpart /dev/xvda 1 where xvda 1 is the first partition of the EBS.
    with above command we can increase the partition but not the file system, then we need to do.
    sudo resize2fs /dev/xvda1

    Incase of xfs file system not ext4 file system.
    xfs growfs

32) How to connect an EBS with multiple instances?

    If we wanted to create multiple instance exactly same in one time there is an option number of instance
    we can give number of instance we wanted to create while creating instance only.

    While creating instance if we choose IO1, IO2 then one multi attach checkbox will come there we need
    to checked. In some region of IO1 multi checkbox may not come also.
    one more thing we can attach same EBS to those multiple instances which are nitro based instance,
    not the XEN based instances. t2 is a XEN based instance t3 is a nitro based instance.

    We can not change the instance type while running the instance, we need to stop the instance then
    we can change the instance type of that instance one by one.

    Steps to change the instance type.
    a) Select an instance and click on action.
    b) click on instance setting and then change the instance type.

    Now in same way how we attach the volume to an instance one by one we can attach the instances to
    an EBS.

    In the shared EBS volume we need to create such a file system which is cluster aware, normal ext4 and
    xfs file system will not work.

33) Types of EBS volume.

    IOPS - Input Output per second.
    Throughput (MB/Sec) - The number of data in MB transfer in 1 sec.

    Above two things are their when we create volume.

    There are seven type of EBS volume in AWS.
    1) GP2 - 1:3 Ratio means for 1 GB of storage 3 IOPS.
    2) GP3 - minimum IOPS starts with 3000
    3) IO1 - Used where we need high speed of data transfer, mission critical mode.
    4) IO2 - Used where we need high speed of data transfer. mission critical mode.
    5) Cold HDD SC1 - Used to big data like data warehouse, starting storage 125 GB.
    6) Throughput optimized HDD ST1 - Used to big data like data warehouse, starting storage 125 GB.
    7) Magnetic (standard) - Not recommended by AWS, Now we are not using it before we used to use that.

    Note: - Whenever you need to perform high speed data transfer we need IO1, IO2. GP2, GP3 are the
        general purpose EBS volume between speed and price. By default GP2 is selected when we use to
        create EBS. Max value of IOPS will be minimum in Cold HDD SC1 then Throughput optimized HDD ST1
        then GP2, GP3, IO1, IO2.
        Magnetic is cheapest one. We can not take Cold HDD SC1 and Throughput optimized HDD ST1 as a root
        volume.

34) What is snapshot in AWS?

    We can take snapshot of EBS volume in AWS. Snapshot is just like a point of time. means if we take
    snapshot at 7 pm then after 7 pm it will not store any that into the snapshot. We take snapshot for
    backup. we can come revert also to previous snapshot at any time if we need. If by mistake we run
    rm command or rmdir command then this type of situation we can deal with backups.

    Snapshot will store data into s3. EBS volume is an availability zone specific in similar snapshot is
    a region specific based.

    How we can move EBS data from one availability zone to another?
    We can achive above things with help of snapshot. We can create a snapshot of an EBS volume then we can
    move that snapshot to another availability zone then in the new availability zone we can create an
    EBS from that snapshot.

    AWS snapshot will store data incrementally which means that suppose we have 50 GB data into EBS volume
    we create a snapshot then again we have added 10 GB extra then if we re create the snapshot then AWS
    will not create snapshot of whole 60 GB data it will create snapshot of only new 10 GB data. So in this
    way we reduse the storage cost.

    If we delete a snapshot AWS will transfer the data into just next incremental snapshot blindly.

    command to create a file system
    sudo file -s /dev/xvdb

    command to return a string multiple time and store into a file.
    yes "Ashish" >abc.txt

    steps to create a snapshot.

    a) Select an EBS from a EBS list and click on action.
    b) Click on snapshot create.
    c) Fill the name of snapshot generally we give name of EBS and time stamp.

    In elastic block storage part snapshot is there there list of snapshot will be there.

    Steps to create a volume from an EBS.

    a) select a snapshot and click on action.
    b) click on create volume from a snapshot.

    Here we can create a volume from a snapshot either greater than the main volume or equal to the main
    volume. We can not create a volume which less than the main volume. We can change the Instance
    type, availability zone. When we create a volume from a second or third snapshot then AWS will
    aggregate all the data from their previous snapshot and create volume.

35) How to schedule a job to create a snapshot daily or weekly at a time?

    Whenever we create a EBS it creates a tag also with name of EBS. We can create a custom tag of EBS
    also.

    Steps to schedule a job which create snapshot daily.

    a) In elastic block storage life cycle manager is there click on it.
    b) create new life cycle manager and click on next step.
    c) We will get some options like schedule name, every, frequency, starting at, retention type
        (count, age) how many count or how much of time we can keep the older snapshot.
    d) Some more advance options will be there.
    e) Click on review policy.
    f) It will go to review policy again we need to click on review policy to create.

    Can we move snapshot from one region to another?
    Yes

36) How to enable retention rule(Recyclebin) of EBS snapshot?

    We can write retention rule of snapshot or AMI.

    steps to create retention rule of snapshot.

    a) Select on a snapshot from snapshot list.
    b) click on recyclebin button and create retention rue.
    c) Here fill the rule name, description, resource type (AMI or Snapshot), apply to all, retention
        period and click on create retention rule.
    d) We can select retention as blocked or unblock means once the retention will create user can
        edit or not.

    steps to see the list of retention rules.

    a) go to list of snapshots and click on recyclebin.
    b) You will get three options.
        1) Create new retention rule - where you can create new rule.
        2) Resources - Where you can see the deleted EBS snapshots.
        3) Retention rules - Where you can see the existing retentions.

        We can recover the deleted EBS from recyclebin.

    For AWS their default region is N.virginia here only AWS will test first once they will deploy.

37) How to copy a snapshot from one region to another?

    Steps to copy a snapshot from one region to another is

    a) Select a snapshot from list of snapshots.
    b) Click on copy snapshot.
    c) Select the destination region where you wanted to paste.
    d) While copying a snapshot we can encrypt a snapshot and the EBS which will create from an
        encrypted snapshot will also be encrypted in nature.

    EBS volume is a SAN (Storage area network)

38) Encrypt the EBS volume?

    When we encrypt an EBS Volume. Volume will be stored in to SAN(Storage Area Network) in encrypted
    form. Data will transfer from volume to EC2 instance in encrypted form also.
    When you will go to create a snapshot from an encrypted EBS volume by default the snapshot will be
    encrypted only.

    When we will create an EBS volume from an encrypted snapshot then the EBS volume will be encrypted
    only we will not get options also to un encrypt.
    But when we create an EBS volume from an un encrypted snapshot then we will get options to encrypt
    also. According to AWS if EBS is encrypted then there will not be any latency for reading or writing
    data from EBS.

    How to enable a by default checked checkbox of encrypted for an EBS volume while creating EBS?

    When we checked the checkbox of encrypted then whenever we create a volume with by default option
    it will created an encrypted volume only.

    Steps to enable a default checkbox for encryption.

    a) In Ec2 dashboard in the right side you will get account attributes.
    b) Click on data protection and security and click on manage in EBS encryption.
    c) Enable the checkbox and click on update EBS encryption.

39) What is Tag in AWS?

    In AWS tag is a key value pair which store the meta data about a resource including Amazon elastic
    block storge volume. Tags are meta data which store additional data about the resources of which we
    assign. Tags help us to organize, categorize and manage more efficiently the resources. Each tag has
    its key and their corresponding value.

40) AWS AMI (Amazon machine image)

    AMI stands for Amazon machine image.
    Suppose we wanted to install an os to a laptop. then we need to get a bootable pen drive. with help
    of that pen drive we can install os in multiple laptops. So AMI is just like that pen drive where
    we can install a operating system and some other configurations set up also such as install nginx,
    deploy the whole applications also.Now whenever we create a new instance from that AMI automatically
    those configurations or set up will be available to that instance.

    Step to create AMI of an instance.

    step 1 -
        1) Select an instance do right click and click on AMI and template and click on create AMI.
        2) We can create an AMI after clicking on Action ad click on AMI and template then create AMI.

    step 2 -
        Since instance is EBS volume instance so create a snapshot of the root volume then from that
        snapshot create image by clicking on action.

    Whenever we create an AMI AWS will create a snapshot behind.

41) How to share an AMI to other users?

    1) Select the AMI and click on action then edit AMI permissions.
    2) Filled the shared accounts with the shared usernames. We can make the AMI public also so anyone can
        use that.

    We can copy an AMI from one region to another region also by clicking on action button.

    steps to delete an AMI.
    1) First we need to de register an AMI then from snapshot we can delete the snapshot.

42) AWS load balancer.

    Basically when more users will start coming on our server then the server will start giving response
    slow. After some time It will chock also. To prevent with this type of issue AWS has come with a
    approach of AWS load balancer. In this approach user will not hit the public IP of instance directly,
    user will hit the public IP of load balancer then load balancer will hit the public IP of instance.





