command to install pandas
    pip install pandas
command to install jupyter notebook
    pip install jupyter
command to launch jupyter notebook
    jupyter notebook

1) What is pandas?
    Pandas is an open source data analysis library written in python.
    
    It leverage the power and speed of numpy to make data analysis and preprocessing easy for data scientist.

    It provides rich and highly robust data operations.

    Numpy is fast because it is written in c programming language and pandas uses the speed and power of numpy. So to do analysis with pandas is much faster than the python list, tuple, dictionary, array.

2) Why we use pandas for data analysis if excel sheet is already there?
    We use an external library pandas in python to analyse the data because
    a) in pandas we can use all the functionalities of python but in excel we can not. With help of
    pandas we bring the data into the code then it is easy to analyse the data.

    b) if we open large data file in excel then sometime it does not load the whole files.
    In the excel cells there is a limitation of data also.

In pandas in one column data will be uniform if we insert different data type inside a column then it
will become object.

Pandas data structure.

    Pandas has two types of data structures:

    1) Series - It is a one dimensional array with indexes, It stores a single column or row of data
    in the dataframe.

    2) Dataframe - It is a tabular spreadsheet like structure representing rows each of which contain
    one or multiple columns.

One dimensional array(labled) capable of holding any type of data series.
A two dimensional data(labled) structure with columns of potentially different data types of data
- DataFrame

each column data type will be same inside a dataframe.

when we update a data of a column of a dataframe like df[0][0] = 'abc' then setting with copy warning will
come.

newdf2 = newdf

view and copy

It means newdf2 is a view of newdf if you change any value of a cell in newdf2 then in newdf will that
change will reflect just like shallow copy in the python.

Ex - new_df2 = new_df
    new_df2 = new_df[:]

when we do copy then it will behave like deep copy in python means if we change the element of copied
dataframe then original dataframe will not change.

Ex - new_df2 = new_df.copy()

When we set some value of a cell by channing means df[0][0] then pandas will not confirm whether it
will return views or copy because of this confusion it gives warning setting with copy warning.

To overcome with this warning we use loc method.

Ex - 
df.loc[0, 0] = 'ash' where first zero is index of the dataframe and second zero is column of the dataframe.

What is the difference between loc and iloc in python?
    When we wanted to select an element based of the name of index and the column then loc will
    use and whenever we wanted to find an element with number of index it will start with 0 then we
    need to use iloc where it does not depend upon the name of the index or columns.


What is data science?
    Data science or data analytics is a process of analyzing large set of data points to get answers
    or questions related to that data set.

What is data munging or data wrangling?
    Process of cleaning messy data is called data munging or data wrangling.

What is dataframe in pandas?
    Dataframe is a main object in pandas. It is used to represent data with rows and columns
    (tabular or excel spreadsheet like data.)

What are the different ways of creating dataframe?
    1) Using csv.
    2) Using Excel.
    3) From python dictionary.
    4) From list of tuples.
    5) from list of dictionaries.
    6) read_hdf
    7) read_sql
    8) read_json
    9) read_html
    10) read_stata
    11) read_sas
    12) read_pickle
    13) read_clipboard

fillna - To fill missing values using different ways.
interpolate - To make a guess on missing values using interpolation.
dropna - To drop with missing values.

In the interpolate method by default it is linear but we can use multiple things like quadratic,
polynomial, cubic etc.

What is split apply and combine in pandas?
In pandas we have groupby function which is used to split the dataframe as per some column same as
groupby in sql then we have some aggregation functions such as max(), mean() which is used to apply
on the groupby objects. combine this whole process is known as split apply and combine.

What is pivot in pandas?
Pivot in pandas allows you to reshape or transform the dataframe.

What is pivot table in pandas?
Pivot table in pandas is used to summarize and aggregate data inside dataframe.
Similar to pivot table melt is used to transform or reshape the dataframe.

What is stack in python?

What is data analysis?
It is a process of deriving an insight from a dataset.
Basically in the real world data is very messy such as it has some typo, whitespace, may be
splitted into two columns or vice versa, So in this process we actually mold the dataset or we
can say shape the dataset in such a format on which we need it.

What is pandas?
Pandas is a powerful library of data analysis which built on the top of python programing
language. It is a robust toolkit for analyzing, filtering, manipulating, aggregating, merging,
pivoting and cleaning data.

What is series?
A python series is a one dimensional labelled array.
A series combines the best features of a list and a dictionary.
A series maintains a single collection of ordered values(ie a single column of data).
We can assign each value an identifier, which does not have to be unique.
When ever we do not tell pandas that specifically about the identifier of each values, pandas
automatically assign numeric values we called it index. It assign the values in the same order
as it is mentioned in the source list.

What is the difference between methods and the attributes?
Method is like a set of commands which we wanted to execute on the system.
attributes are like of properties of an objects ie attributes tells the information about the
objects.
for example we can tell a person to walk, talk, sleep these sets of commands are like of functions
of a person and name of that person, age, dob are like of attributes of that person which are like
some information about person.
An attributes does not require a parenthesis but a method require a parenthesis.

What are parameters and arguments?
A parameter is the name for an expected input to a function/method/class instantiation.
An argument is the concrete value we provide for a parameter during invocation.

A csv is a plain text file that uses line breaks to separate rows and comma to separate row values.
pandas ship with many different read_ functions for different types of files.
The read_csv function accepts many different parameters. The first one specifies the file name/path.
The read_csv function will import the dataset as dataframe, a 2 dimensional table.
The usecols parameter accepts a list of the columns to import.
The squeeze method converts a DataFrame to a Series. The squeeze method will only work with
those dataframes having one column, with more than one column it will not work.

head method in pandas gives rows from the top of the series. By default it gives first 5 rows
if we do not pass any argument inside head method.

tail method in pandas gives rows from the bottom of the series. similar to head method
tail method gives bottom 5 rows by default.

Passing series to python's built-in functions
The len function returns the length of the series.
The type function returns the type of an object.
The list function converts the series to a list.
The dict function converts the series to a dictionary.
The sorted function converts the series to a sorted list.
The max function returns the largest value in the series.
The min function returns the smallest value in the series.

In Keyword in series -
The in keyword checks if a value exists within an object.
The in keyword will look for a value in the series's index.
Use the index and values attributes to access "nested" object within the series.
Combine the in keyword with values to search within the series's value.

The sort_values method -
The sort_values method sorts a series value in order.
By default, pandas applies an ascending sort(smallest to largest).
Customize the sort order with the ascending parameter.

The sort_index method -
The sort_index method sort a series by its index.
The sort index method also accepts an ascending parameter to set sort order.

iloc -
Use the iloc accessor to extract a series value by its index position.
iloc is short for "index location".
python's list slicing syntaxes(slices, slices from start, slices to end, etc..) are supported
with series objects.

loc -
Use the loc accessor to extract a series value by its index label.
Pass a list to extract multiple values by index label.
If one index label/position in the list does not exist, pandas will raise an error.

get method -
The get method extracts a series value by index label. It is an alternative option to square
brackets.
The get method's second argument sets the fallback value to return if the label/position does not
exist.

overwrite a series value -
Use the iloc/loc accessor to target an index/label/position, then use an equal sign to provide
new value.

A copy is a duplicate/replica of an object.
Changes to a copy do not modify the original object.

A view is a different way of looking at the same data.
Changes to a view do modify the original object.

The copy method creates a copy of a pandas object.

The math methods on series objects.
The count method returns the number of values in the series. It excludes missing values;
the size attribute includes missing values.

The sum method adds together the series's values.
The product method multiplies together the series's values.
The mean method calculates the average of series's values.
The std method calculates the standard deviation of the series's values.
The max method returns the largest values in the series.
The min method returns the smallest values in the series.
The median method returns the median of the series(the value in the meddle).
The mode method returns the mode of the series(The most frequent value).
The describe method returns a summary with various mathematical calculations.

The basic difference between size attribute and count method is
count method excludes the missing value whereas size attribute includes the missing value.

Broadcasting -
Broadcasting describes the process of applying an arithmetic operation to an array(i.e., a series)
We can combine mathematical operators with a Series to apply the mathematical operation to every
value.
There are also methods to accomplish the same results(add, sub, mul, div, etc).

The value_counts method returns the number of times each unique value occurs in the series.
The normalize parameter returns the relative frequencies/percentages of the values instead of the
counts.

The apply method accepts a function. It invokes that function on every series value.

The map method "maps" or connects each Series values to another value.
We can pass the method a dictionary or a series. Both types connects keys to values.
The map method uses our argument to connect or bridge together the value.
Only one condition is there to use map method between two dataset is value of 1st dataset should
be the key or index of another dataset.

In a series whenever we have at least one missing value the existing non missing numeric value
pandas will show in floating point values, this is default behaviour of pandas.

Dataframes -
A dataframe is a 2 dimensional table consisting of rows and columns.
Pandas uses a NaN designation for cells that have a missing value. It is short for "Not a Number".
Most operations on NaN value will produce NaN values.
Like with a series, pandas assigns an index position/label to each Dataframe row.
The dataframe and series have common and exclusive methods/attributes.
The hasnans attribute exists only an series. The columns attribute exists only on a dataframe.
Some methods/attributes will return different types of data.
The info method returns a summary of the pandas object.

df.values - returns the list of list all the values.
df.index returns the index of the dataframe.
df.shape returns the dimension of dataframe.

The sum method adds adds a series values.
On a dataframe the sum method defaults to adding the values by traversing the index (row value).
The axis parameter customizes the direction that we add across. pass "columns" or 1 to add
"across" the columns.

Select a single column from a dataframe

We can use attribute syntax(df.column_name) to select a column from a dataframe. The syntax
will not work if the column name has space.

We can also use square bracket syntax(df["column name"]) which will work for any column name.
Pandas extracts a column from dataframe as a series.
The series is a view, so changes to the series will effect the dataframe.
pandas will display a warning if you mutate the series. Use the copy method to create a duplicate.

Select multiple columns from a dataframe
Use square brackets with a list of names to extract multiple dataframe columns.
Pandas stores the result in a new dataframe(a copy)

Add new column to dataframe -
Use square bracket extraction syntax with an equal sign to add a new series to a dataframe.
The insert method allow us to insert an element at a specific column index.
On right-hand-side, we can reference an existing DataFrame column and perform a broadcasting
operation on it to create the new series.

The value_counts method counts the number of times that each unique value occurs in a series.

Drop rows with missing values
Pandas uses NaN designation for cells that have a missing value.
The dropna method deletes rows with missing values. Its default behaviour is to remove a row
if it has any missing values.
Pass the how parameter an argument of "all" to delete rows where all values are NaN.
The subset parameters customizes/limits the columns that pandas will use to drop
rows with missing values.

The fillna method replaces missing NaN values with its argument.
The fillna method is available on both DataFrames and series.
An extracted series is a view on the original DataFrame, but the fillna method returns a copy.

The astype method converts a series's values to a specified type.
pass in the specified type as either a string or the core python data type.
pandas cannot convert NaN values to numeric types, so we need to eliminate/replace them
before we perform the conversion.
The dtypes attribute returns a series with the dataframe's columns and their type.

The category type is ideal for columns with a limited number of unique values.
The nunique method will return a series with the number of unique values in each column.
With categories, pandas does not create a separate value in memory for each "cell". Rather, the
cells point to a single copy for each unique value.

sort_values method sort a dataframe by the values in one or more columns. The default sort
is in ascending one(alphabetical for strings).
The first parameter(by) excepts the column(s) to sort by.
If sorting by a single column, pass a string with its name.
The ascending parameter customizes the sort order.
The na_position parameter customizes where pandas places NaN values.

To sort by multiple columns, pass the by parameter a list of column names. pandas will sort
in the specified column order(first to last).
Pass the ascending parameter a boolean to sort all columns in a consistent order(all ascending
or all descending).
Pass ascending a list to customize the sort order per column. The ascending list length must
match the by list.

The sort_index method sorts the dataframe by its index positions/labels.

The rank method assigns a numeric ranking to each Series value.
Pandas will assign the same rank to equal values and create a "gap" in the dataset for the ranks.