Python like other programing language has various design patterns which solve common problems in
software development.

1) Singleton design Pattern
2) Factory Method design pattern
3) Abstract Factory design pattern
4) Builder design pattern
5) Prototype design pattern
6) Adapter design pattern
7) Decorator design pattern
8) Observer design pattern
9) Command design pattern
10) Strategy design pattern
11) State design pattern
12) Template method design pattern


1) Singleton pattern -

    The singleton design pattern ensures that a class has only one instance and it provide global
    point of access of that instance.
    we can use this pattern in many real time places.

    Explanation -

    Since we need to restrict the class to generate object multiple times.
    As we know that everytime when we generate object, constructor is getting called everytime,
    so if we restrict to call the constructor then our job will done. so first thing we will make
    our constructor as private after making private, no one can create object outside of that class.

    now still we can create object from same class so what we will do, we will create a method,
    in that method will call constructor and we will create class variable and inside that method we will
    add a check if it is null then only will create object else nothing.

    this is called lazy way.

    one more method is there

    in class variable only we will generate object and that variable will be static.
    so it generate an object whenever class load. this is called eager way.

    both are not safe for thread. so we need to use sync block to prevent from breaking .

    still we can break singleton class by using reflection api to prevent from that we can
    return runtime error when class static variable has some data.

    1) Web application where we wanted to use db connection there we can use above design pattern
    to establish the connection with db at one time and exit the db at one time.

    2) When we wanted to add logger into entire project.

    3) We can use singleton design pattern for configuration settings.

2) Factory design pattern -

    It is also known as factory method design pattern.
    When we have super class and there are multiple child class then if we wanted to create objects
    of child classes as per the input and requirement.
    In above scenario we can use Factory design pattern.

    basically we create a class which has all the responsibility that of which child class we need to
    create objects.

    The super class will be either interface or an abstract class.

    Basically in factory design pattern we create a class and in that class we will create objects
    and return objects of another class as per parameter.

    Advantages of factory design pattern -

    1. Encapsulation of object creation -
        The factory design pattern encapsulate the code of object creation and separate the object
        creation process with client. The client will know about factory method only.

    2. Code Organization -
        Here code will be more organized and object creation code will be centralized.

    3. Reuse of object creation code -
        Easily we can reuse the code of object creation from anywhere in the project.

    4. Dynamic object creation -
        In factory design pattern we can create different types of object dynamically ie runtime.
        suppose we need to communicate with different different databases so we can create object
        of each database on run time only and change.

    In real world project we can use factory design pattern in below use case -

    1. Database connection management -
        Where we need to switch between different different database connection.

    2. GUI Frameworks -
        When we need to display different GUI for different clients we can use Factory design patterns.

    3. Logging Framework -
        Suppose for one client we wanted to display logs on console and for another clients
        we wanted to store logs in a file so we here we can use above design patterns.

    4. File format read/write -
        When we are dealing with different file type there we can use.

3) Abstract factory design pattern -

    In abstract factory design pattern we add one more abstract layer of class ie abstract factory class
    between factory class and the class of which we need to generate object. So in this design
    pattern the even factory class also will not know about the implementation of a class
    which will generate object of main class.

4) Builder design pattern -

    In factory design pattern there are few demerit such as if we have more number of argument
    present in the class of which we wanted to create object then it is difficult to remember the
    order of the parameter.
    And there will be too much load on factory class because of complex logic.
    when there will be few optional parameter.
    so to overcome with that
    above demerit of factory design pattern builder design pattern has implemented.

    In builder design pattern we create an object step by step and finally return the final object
    with desired values of attributes.
    Builder design pattern helps us to create immutable objects.

5) Observer design pattern -

    The observer design pattern are the behavioural design pattern where an object, known as the
    subject, maintains a list of its dependents, called observers, and notifies them of any
    state changes, usually by calling one of their methods.